[Music]
and here they are seven things that can
change your eye color
now you might assume that the color of
your eyes is something you have no
control over and that it's all genetic
but have you ever wondered why your eyes
look a bit lighter on a sunny day or why
the eyes of people who are in a rage
seem to go dark all of a sudden yep your
eye color can change depending not only
on the lighting or your mood but a whole
slew of other factors now before we
embark on our colorful topic be sure to
click that subscribe button and turn on
post notifications to join the bright
side of life
number one melanin and aging if a baby
was born with greyish blue eyes don't be
surprised if they end up with a
different eye color later on blue eyes
are a result of a low melanin content in
the irises causing them to reflect more
light versus absorbing it this
phenomenon in the eyes is called the
Tyndall effect and it's kind of like
Rayleigh scattering which is what makes
the sky appear blue next time a toddler
asks you why the sky is blue there's
your answer
now the eye color of babies from 3 to 18
months old can become darker if the
number of melanocytes in their irises
increases depending on how much more
melanin develops a blue-eyed baby can
end up with green hazel or brown eyes
the darker they get the more melanin has
appeared in their irises over time in
fact the final eye color sometimes isn't
even fully established until the age of
12 on the other hand babies who were
born with brown eyes experienced no
changes and they maintain that eye color
for the rest of their lives due to a
high content of melanin the outer layer
of the iris absorbs more light instead
of reflecting it resulting in that
beautiful brown color
so you see it's a lot more complicated
than just genetics and your parents eye
color number two and injury the color of
your eyes may also change due to an
injury or accident according to dr. Ivan
Schwab a clinical spokesman for the
American Academy of Ophthalmology head
or eye trauma can result in a condition
called heterochromia which is when a
person's eyes have two different colors
of course it can be genetic but
heterochromia also happens when the
melanocytes in your eye are shaken after
a traumatic event this trauma to the
melanin in the eye can transform the
iris to a lighter or darker shade when
the heterochromia is the result of
injury it requires immediate medical
attention dr. Schwab says that it can
also be a symptom of an illness such as
Horner syndrome
pigment Airy glaucoma or late stage
diabetes number three your mood yep your
heart rate breathing and blood pressure
change when you experience emotions like
happiness sadness or anger most of us
are familiar with our body's physical
response to emotional stimuli but still
it was proven in a study conducted by
the University of Arizona what you might
not be aware of is that your emotions
also affect your eye color the pigments
in your iris compress or spread apart
making them darker or lighter when the
size of your pupil changes your pupils
in turn can get bigger or smaller
depending on your emotional state
remember how people who are really mad
seem to have darker eyes well this is
why these dilations in the pupil are the
same reason why your eyes may look
lighter or darker in different lighting
the pupils become smaller in bright
light making your irises appear lighter
and vice-versa in dim lighting number 4
raw food diet and detoxing
now there's a theory and alternative
medicine that the color of the irises
and the health of the internal organs
are connected is called iridology
however there isn't a lot of scientific
proof backing it up so it still needs
further research dr. Robert Morris a
natural health and detox expert with
over 42 years of experience says
otherwise
he believes that the inner portion of
your eye is connected with a digestive
system and that by eating plenty of
fruits and vegetables you can actually
change the color of your eyes dr.
Moore's explains that a high
concentration of yellow hues signifies a
large number of toxins but he also
explains that every person's pigment is
unique and requires an individual
analysis but in general Moore's
recommends eating spinach to keep the
eyes youthful and bright honey to add
warm hues and seafood to make the color
more intense other foods that can affect
the color of your eyes are olive oil
onions and nuts ooh those almond colored
eyes owner and founder of live love
fruit
Carly Frazier also stands by Morris's
theory she went raw vegan for six years
and saw for herself how her clean diet
changed her eye color her wants dark
green eyes with brown specks turned
light green blue with green flecks she
didn't just see a visible change in the
color of her irises she also managed to
improve the work of her digestive system
and saw that the whites of her eyes
became clearer and brighter as well
number five makeup and clothing if
you're doubtful about the whole
iridology thing then try this quick
trick instead when it comes to bringing
out certain pigments in your eyes makeup
and clothing can truly work miracles for
example if you have brown eyes and want
to make them look lighter go for
eyeshadows or tops that are gold pink or
green as for you blue eye
green eyed babes a hat you can reinforce
the intensity of your eye color with the
use of turquoise emerald and blue now if
you have hazel eyes you can make them
look more Brown with the help of purple
or more on the green side if you wear a
burnt orange you neutrals like white
gray and black can help underline your
natural eye color if you wear glasses
ask your eye doctor to make your lenses
with a our coating not only does it
neutralize glare it also enhances the
color of your eyes number six laser
lightening of the eye color now beware
invasive eye surgery is very risky and
can even result in blindness dr. Greg
homers innovative and way less invasive
eye color correcting laser surgery
doesn't come with so much risk the
procedure involves using a laser to
destroy melanin cells and the irises
making them appear lighter so people
with brown eyes can have blue or grey
eyes the whole thing only takes 20
seconds to do and the final results
become visible within two to four weeks
his research shows that the operation
doesn't affect vision whatsoever but
it's still relatively new and still
needs further analysis of any potential
side effects number seven number seven
colored contact lenses of course the
quickest way to change your eye color is
to pop in some colored or decorative
lenses but which one is right for you
according to the American Academy of
Ophthalmology a colored contact lenses
tended and can correct vision decorative
lenses are for cosmetic purposes only
and don't correct vision you can go for
natural eye colors or even get creative
with a lot of different prints like cat
eyes spiderwebs white outs black scleras
creepers and smileys just be extra
careful with decorative contacts because
they can lead to serious eye problems if
you're planning to buy
you need a prescription and they should
be fda-approved and medically safe the
US Food and Drug Administration
prohibits purchasing from unauthorized
sellers like street vendors boutiques
flea markets novelty stores convenience
stores and online shops dr. Bernard
lepree an FDA optometrist says that
contacts without a prescription may
result in corneal ulcers or blindness
boy that's a high price to pay huh
so do you want to change your eye color
or are you happy with what you've got
let us know in the comments below
yeah right down there and don't forget
to give this video a like share it with
your friends and click Subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
you